This page gives a brief overview as to what you can do to help
Quicksilver. You can still help even if you're not a developer, read on!

### Develop

If you want to help develop for Quicksilver, we first recommend you
checkout the source code from the [Quicksilver
GitHub](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver) repository. There is
information on [Developer Information](Developer_Information "wikilink")
available in this wiki. Many reported bugs exist in the Github [Issues
list](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver/issues) and this is
what we're working hardest on at the moment. You may also like to join
the [Quicksilver Developer's
Group](http://groups.google.com/group/quicksilver---development).

### Documentation

You use Quicksilver everyday? Why not help write us with this Wiki, or
document the plugins? It will help both developers and other users a
LOT. To sign up for a Quicksilver Wiki account, email devs@qsapp.com

### Blogging

There's a [LoveQuicksilver](http://lovequicksilver.com) blog online
which is great for sharing tips. If you have ideas you want to share,
why not submit a post?

### Localisation & Translation

See the [Localization](Localization "wikilink") page

### Bug Reporting

The only way we can all improve Quicksilver is if we know what the bugs
we need to fix are! You can report bugs on Quicksilver at the
[Quicksilver Issues](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver/issues)
page, and bugs on the plugins at the [Plugins
Issues](https://github.com/quicksilver/Plugins/issues) page.

### Support

If you're a Quicksilver power user, you can help new users at the
[Google
Groups](http://groups.google.com/group/blacktree-quicksilver/topics?gvc=2),
find solutions for users that are posting issues at
[GitHub](https://github.com/quicksilver/Quicksilver/issues) or help
people who are tweeting problems to
[@LoveQuicksilver](http://twitter.com/lovequicksilver)

### Spread the word!

The best way of keeping something alive is to spread the word about its
existence! Let friends know how awesome it is; you never know - your
best friend may be the one Mac OS X developer that knows just how to fix
things right.

### With QSApp.com

There's another extensive page which you can see called
[QSApp.com](QSApp.com "wikilink") which details what you can do to help
this website.

### Anything you can think of!

If you have any other ideas or want more help, feel free to post in the
[Google
Groups](http://groups.google.com/group/blacktree-quicksilver/topics?gvc=2)
and we'll definitely get in touch!