Quıcĸsıɩⅴεʀ is a powerful interface for your Mac, letting you perform
countless actions entirely with the keyboard.

"If using a computer is like walking around and shooting things, using a
computer with Quicksilver is like carrying a lightsaber and throwing
robots across the room with your mind."

## Search

At first glance, Quicksilver is a launcher.

![Quicksilver Command
Window](images/Quicksilver_splash.png "Quicksilver Command Window")

When opened, it will create a catalog of applications and some
frequently used folders and documents. Activate it, and you can search
for and open anything in its catalog instantly. The search is adaptive,
so Quicksilver will recognize which items you are searching for based on
previous experience. It also supports abbreviations, so you can type
entire words, or just fragments of each. When not in use, Quicksilver
vanishes, waiting for the next time you summon it.

## Command

Quicksilver's greatest strength, however, is not search. Any item you
are able to find, drag, or otherwise pull into its universe is endowed
with many potential uses. Hitting <tab> takes you to the action field,
where you can use the same adaptive search to select what you would like
to do. Among other things, files can be emailed, copied, compressed.
Text can be modified, transmitted between programs, or searched for on
the web. Some actions even support an indirect object, so you can send
an item to a person, move files to another folder, or open files with a
specific application.

Quicksilver can be given the ability to understand the data inside of
files, allowing you to work with data in new, faster ways. Plug-ins add
both new items and new actions, allowing you to run scripts, send
instant messages, dial phone numbers, look up words in a dictionary,
queue up songs in iTunes party shuffle, and much, much more.

Frequently used commands can be bound to triggers, giving you the
ability to execute them immediately by hitting a hot key or using the
mouse on a corner or edge of the screen.

## Wei Wu Wei—Act Without Doing

In the end, Quicksilver has one very important effect: the effort of
frequent tasks fades into the background and you are able to act without
thinking. After an adaptation period, Quicksilver becomes an extension
of yourself; the process fades away leaving only the results.